1. My Company has few private Web Servers on my Premises, Also I have shared some of my workload onto the Public Cloud. What kind of Setup or Architecture is this?

2. I want to create the ec2 security group with this name "WebServer-SG" using AWS CLI? What is the command and do a demo on this

3. I am running a Media Streaming company called "MovileFlix". Team has found out that Processing of a Video is interrupted in one of the EC2 instances which is running with M5.large. However the video processing have been resumed in another available instance.
Perphaps, lot of videos needs to be processed and all in backlog and waiting for more instances. But you need new instances only until your backlog is reduced. What type of instances would you opt for ?

4. Explain the difference between Stopping and Terminating and instance?

5. My Business team has requested me to launch an instance to run on a single-tenant hardware, which value should I choose to set the instance's tenancy attribute?

6. You have attached an Elastic IP address to an instance. You are getting charged every month on this // but one of your colleague has said " No charges for using Elastic IP " . Can you find out what you are doing wrong ?

7. What is the difference between Spot vs On-Demand vs Reserved ?

8. As an Architect, Do you use AMI and What is the use of it ?

9. How do you choose Availability Zone and Regions ?  

10. Should I use Elastic IP or Any LoadBalancers ? Which is best to choose?

11. I have installed Apache in c5.xlarge machine and updated my website under /var/www/html/index.html , however next day after stopping and starting my website is down. What is the cause?

12. My Colleague told me that when you setup a bucket for static website, you give the permission for the entire bucket policy rather using ACL ? Which option you prefer ?

13. I am a CNN employee working from a small remote village working from NewZealand. I came to NewZealand for some reporting work and have to upload the images to my company website which is hosted from US. When i try to upload in a normal way of s3 upload, it takes long time as i have to upload videos. What is other option to upload it faster?

14. Is it possible to change the private ip address of an instance ?

15. I have hosted a dynamic and static website using EC2 and S3. I have put Cloudfront before the ec2 and s3. My Content is not present in EDGE location. When user hits my website, what would they get ? Will get 502 error or 404 not found ?

16. What is the difference between scalability and elasticity ?

17. My Application is using Application Load Balancer with Auto-Scaling Group. My Intances are running with r5.2xlarge. My Production team has said, we have to change the instance type for all the running instances ? How can you achieve this ?

18. I have setup a content management system application on one ec2 instance. It is approaching 100% cpu utilization. Suggest me how can i reduce this ?

19. When can i Use classic load balancer and application load balancer ?

20. ALB detected that one of the instances failed the health check ? what will happen to this failed health check instances ?

21. What are Lifecycle Hooks ? Where will we use it ?

22. Your IT director has asked you to create a mirror image of your current production environment which is running in us-east-1  to us-west-1. It's part of disaster recovery. Which AWS service you don't need to recreate it ?

23. A customer relationship management (CRM) application runs on Amazon EC2 instances in multiple
Availability Zones behind an Application Load Balancer
If one of these instances fails, what occurs?
A) The load balancer will stop sending requests to the failed instance.
B) The load balancer will terminate the failed instance.
C) The load balancer will automatically replace the failed instance.
D) The load balancer will return 504 Gateway Timeout errors until the instance is replaced.

24. A solutions architect wants to design a solution to save costs for Amazon EC2 instances that do not
need to run during a 2-week company shutdown. The applications running on the instances store data in
instance memory (RAM) that must be present when the instances resume operation.
Which approach should the solutions architect recommend to shut down and resume the instances?
A) Modify the application to store the data on instance store volumes. Reattach the volumes while restarting
them.
B) Snapshot the instances before stopping them. Restore the snapshot after restarting the instances.
C) Run the applications on instances enabled for hibernation. Hibernate the instances before the shutdown.
D) Note the Availability Zone for each instance before stopping it. Restart the instances in the same
Availability Zones after the shutdown.

25.  A company needs to maintain access logs for a minimum of 5 years due to regulatory requirements.
The data is rarely accessed once stored, but must be accessible with one day’s notice if it is needed.
What is the MOST cost-effective data storage solution that meets these requirements?
A) Store the data in Amazon S3 Glacier Deep Archive storage and delete the objects after 5 years using a
lifecycle rule.
B) Store the data in Amazon S3 Standard storage and transition to Amazon S3 Glacier after 30 days using a
lifecycle rule.
C) Store the data in logs using Amazon CloudWatch Logs and set the retention period to 5 years.
D) Store the data in Amazon S3 Standard-Infrequent  Access (S3 Standard-IA) storage and delete the
objects after 5 years using a lifecycle rule.

26. A company uses Reserved Instances to run its data-processing workload. The nightly job typically
takes 7 hours to run and must finish within a 10-hour time window. The company anticipates temporary
increases in demand at the end of each month that will cause the job to run over the time limit with the
capacity of the current resources. Once started, the processing job cannot be interrupted before
completion. The company wants to implement a solution that would allow it to provide increased capacity
as cost-effectively as possible.
What should a solutions architect do to accomplish this?
A) Deploy On-Demand Instances during periods of high demand.
B) Create a second Amazon EC2 reservation for additional instances.
C) Deploy Spot Instances during periods of high demand.
D) Increase the instance size of the instances in the Amazon EC2 reservation to support the increased
workload.

27. Following are security group inbound rules:

http/80, source = 10.10.1.148/32
http/80, source = 10.10.1.0/28
All TCP, source = 10.10.1.148/32
SSH/22,  source = 10.10.1.0/28
custom udp/3000, source = 10.10.1.148/32

All rules are correct or anything is wrong ?

28. Which of the following are s3 bucket properties?
Metadata
Storage Class
Object Level Logging
Server Access Logging

29. You have created an s3 bucket in us-east-1 region with default configuration. You have uploaded some documents and wanted to share it with a group of users in your organization. What will you do ?

a. by default, s3 bucket has public access enabled, share the document's url with users via email
b. generate pre-signed url with an expiry date and share the url 
c. create one iam user per person, add them to an iam group, attach managed poliy for the group with getobject action on your s3 bucket. Users can download documents from aws console
d. create one iam user per person, attach managed policy for each users with getobject action on your s3 bucket. users can login to aws console and download documents.

30. U have an app running on ec2, when it tried to upload a 7 gb file to s3, the operation got failed. Select the reason and solution for this problem.

31. You create a bucket named "mybucket" in US west region. What are the valid URLs for accessing the bucket ? 
a. https://s3.amazonaws.com/mybucket
b. https://s3.us-west-1.amazonaws.com/mybucket
c. https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/mybucket
d. https://s3.mybucket.us-west-1.amazonaws.com
e. https://mybucket.s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com

32. Lot of application logs are written on an s3 bucket regularly. These are the only copies and are not replicated anywhere. The log files range between 10MB to 500MB in size and are not required frequently. To troubleshoot application issues, logs are required, and this happens once in a while. You are asked to make 60 days log available immedidately when required, the record older than 60 days should be kept but is required only for reference, not on a regular basis. What solution do you have to keep the billing cost minimum ?
a. Set object storage class to onezone-IA. Use LifeCycle Management to move data from onezone-ia to glacier after 60 days.
b. Set storage class to standard. Use life cycle management to move data from standard to standard-ia after 30 days and move data from standrard-ia to glacier after 30 days.
c. set object storage class to standard. move data from standard to standard-ia after 60 days
d. set object storage class to standard-ia, use lifecycle managmene to move data from standard-ia to glacier after 60 days.


33. You created a bucket 25 days ago, on the day you created this bucket; you uploaded a 1 GB file. On day 15, you uploaded 5gb data to the same bucket. you also enabled versioning on this bucket. how will billing be applied to this scenario?
a. charges 5 gb for 25 days
b. charges 1 gb for 14 days and 5 gb for 11 days
c. charges 1 gb for 25 days 5 gb for 11 days
d. charges 6 gb for 25 days


34. You have one versioning enabled s3 bucket. You accidentally deleted an object that has 3 versions. what will you do to restore the deleted object ?
a. in version-enabled bucket, DELETE request only deletes the latest version.
b. versioning does not support the restoration of deleted objects
c. delete the delete marker on the object
d. select the deleted object and click restore option in more menu

35. An s3 bucket in us-east-1 is used to store video files for a video sharing website that is running on ec2 inside the US. The owners have decided to expand the website all over the world. After the expansion, customers from outside the US region started complaining that the upload, download and overall access to the web are very slow. You are hired to resolve this issue; what solution do you have ?

a. Change your app design to provision higher memory configuration ec2 instances and process s3 requests through ec2
b. enable transfer acceleration feature of s3 that improves upload and download speed by using edge locations
c. use vpc endpoints in other regions to improve s3 uploads and downloads
d. use cloudfront for improving the performance by caching static files on the website


